I'm going to share with you six
Instagram hacks that are proven to help
you get more views, followers, and
sales. It has arguably never been
tougher than right now to grow and have
success on Instagram. I don't say that
to scare you away, but I do think it's
important to recognize the reality of
the times we're currently living in.
Now, with that being said, it is
absolutely still possible to grow on
Instagram, and there are a few key
strategies that have almost never
changed and will lead you to long-term
success on Instagram. But that's not
what we're talking about today. In
today's episode, I'm going to share with
you the quote unquote hacks. These are
the things that I don't normally focus
on a ton because these are things that
aren't necessarily going to be working a
year from now, but they're working right
now. And because they're working right
now, I feel it's my duty and
responsibility to share these things
with you because they might give you a
boost of 100,000 extra views. They might
help you gain 10,000 extra followers.
And while these strategies might not be
working in 2027, they are working today
and they are working arguably better
than anything else. Let's get right into
it with a strategy that I discovered
back in October of 2023. I was sitting
in this very office in this very chair
recording a podcast. And when I was
done, I left my home office to go make
myself some lunch. When I did so, I
turned the corner and I about my pants
because unbeknownst to me, my wife had
hung up our Halloween decorations the
night before and I didn't realize that
there would be a scary witch goblin
staring at me from outside of our entry
window. But it was such a funny moment
that I decided to take a picture of it
and post it on my Instagram story. And
little did I know, this scary moment
that I posted on my Instagram story
would end up becoming one of the most
effective Instagram strategies over the
last few years. If you use this little
hack, I guarantee you will get more
story views maybe than you've ever
gotten before in the history of your
Instagram. The exact name of this
strategy is one that you will not
forget. And I'll explain what the
acronym of the name stands for. The
strategy is called the STD strategy. And
here's what STD stands for. The S in STD
stands for single. And when I say
single, I mean that you are posting only
one single Instagram story in a 24-hour
period. Ideally, before you post that
single story, there should be nothing
else already on your story. So any
stories that you have previously posted
today or that you have posted maybe
yesterday even, you let those expire.
You let your story be completely reset
with no active photos or videos, no
clips, no stories on your Instagram
story. In my example, when I discovered
this strategy, the single story was the
photo of the witch outside of the
window. It was just one single story up.
There were no stories before it. And
really key point here, no stories after
it. So, you're not posting a second,
third, fourth story. You're just leaving
one singular story up for 24 hours. Then
the T in STD is also super important.
And the T stands for textheavy.
Basically, this isn't a talking head
story. It's not a video story where
you're talking to the camera or you're
showing people what it is you're doing
or it's some B-roll clip. Instead, it is
just a single textheavy story. We're
talking 2, 3, four, five sentences of
text. What this does is it allows your
viewers to consume at their own pace.
And for most people, the pace they're
going to consume or the pace they're
going to read is going to require them
to hold their finger down on the story,
thus pausing it. So, let's break down
everything I've just said. You are
posting a story that has a lot of text,
maybe even two or three paragraphs of
text. But because it has that much text,
most people are going to have to pause
the story because they're unable to read
it in the allotted amount of time that
Instagram gives them, which is usually
like 3 to 5 seconds. So, by holding
their finger down on the screen and thus
pausing the story, they're extending the
watch time or the duration that they are
viewing your story for, and they're
extending it past what should even be
allotted. Most Instagram stories are
only viewed for a few seconds. And when
you consider the fact that, like I said
a moment ago, the average duration is
only set to 3 to 5 seconds. If people
are pausing your story because they're
holding their finger down to read the
text you have written out, and they're
reading it for 6, 7, 10, 15, 20 seconds,
that is a significant increase in watch
time. And the algorithm looks on that
very favorably. And the D is the most
important part. You cannot have an STD
without the D. And the D stands for DM
automation or DM reply call toaction. I
know that's kind of a wordy phrase, so
I'll break it down for you. Basically,
the call to action at the bottom of all
of your text should be telling your
viewers to respond with a specific
single keyword in order to get something
specific in response. Not just telling
them to respond if you want to learn
more. let me know if you have any
questions, but instead giving them a
specific word. Maybe you're going to
say, "Reply with the word guide to my
free beginner rock climbing guide." It
needs to be clear and simple, telling
people what you want them to do. And
what you want them to do is respond with
a specific keyword so that they can get
something specific in response. The
reason that this is so effective is
because Instagram is in love with the
DMs. According to Adam Moseri in my
conversation, my interview with him,
which was a former interview, a former
episode of this podcast, which I'm never
going to stop talking about. So, if you
haven't watched it already, definitely
go back and check out my interview with
Adam Moseri, the head of Instagram,
where he spills the tea on the Instagram
algorithm and everything you need to
know. But one of the key things he said
and continued to talk about in that
interview was Instagram's belief in the
power of the DMs and the importance of
the direct messages and their internal
mission to bring people together via the
DMs. So when you can get someone to send
you a direct message and reply to your
story, the algorithm flipping loves
that. And when you satisfy the S, the T,
and the D, your story will be pushed out
to more people. And like I said, this
hack could probably end up producing
your most viewed story of all time. Hack
number two for Instagram is one that I
can confidently say isn't going anywhere
anytime soon, and it's been around for
quite a few years now. It was a tool
software that was originally created
back in 2020, and it is one of the few
officially partnered softwares with
Meta, as in Meta has given the stamp of
approval on this tool, and it is totally
allowed on Instagram. And I'm really
thankful that it is allowed because like
I said, it is arguably one of the best
strategies or hacks in the history of
Instagram, especially if you're a
business owner, especially if you're
someone who wants to make more sales or
get more link clicks. If you're a
musician who wants more people to listen
to your song, if you're an artist who
wants more people to visit your website,
or if you're a business owner who wants
to make more sales. And we're talking
about none other than DM Automation.
Now, I mentioned DM automation a moment
ago with the D of the STD strategy, but
DM automation is much more than just
replying with a keyword to an Instagram
story and then getting something
automatically in reply. There are so
many capabilities of DM automation. You
can automate posts and reels and even
lives on Instagram so that people can
say specific keywords or phrases and
automatically get a message from you
with whatever it is that they are
looking for. I've used DM automation not
just to sell products but to run
giveaways to collect feedback to get
people onto my email list to even get
people to subscribe to my Instagram so I
can send them messages all the time. In
fact, back in April, we did a 30-day
reels challenge where every single day
for the month of April, I would send
people a DM. Now, could I manually send
17,000 DMs? No. Heck no. Even if I hired
300 employees, that would be impossible.
But thanks to DM automation,
specifically through ManyHat, which is
an approved partner with Instagram and
with Meta, I was able to send 17,000
people daily reels prompts. DM
automation is a non-negotiable. If
you're a business owner or anyone who
wants to grow on Instagram and you want
to direct people to a link, a website,
or anywhere off of Instagram, DM
automation is a non-negotiable. It has
been proven to increase your views,
increase your engagement, and increase
your sales, which that's what we are all
after. And I know it sounds super techy
and intimidating, but in all honesty,
it's really easy to get set up. Like
it's literally just drag and drop, point
and click. You could get set up in less
than five minutes. So stop waiting
around. Stop delaying setting up DM
automation and get started today. I'm
currently using DM automation in some
form or fashion on about 2thirds of my
posts. Now, not every single post that
I'm making with DM automation is super
in your face. Not every reel is going to
end with comment the word blank and I'll
send you blank. Sometimes it might just
be tucked away at the bottom of my
caption letting people know, hey, if you
want more info on this, you can comment
the word info. Sometimes it might even
just be somewhere in the comments where
I'm letting people know that, hey, if
you have this question, you can actually
DM me this keyword and learn more.
Sometimes it is more overt and explicit
where I am including in the actual call
to action of the post to comment a
specific keyword. But in some form or
fashion, there is DM automation being
used in about twothirds of my Instagram
posts as we currently speak. Instagram
hack number three that will help you
dominate Instagram is none other than
trial reels. I have done quite a few
episodes of build your tribe recently
about trial reels. In fact, just a few
weeks ago, I did a full in-depth master
class about trial reels explaining to
you what they are and the beginner,
intermediate, and advanced strategy. But
the too long don't read the TLDDR
version of that episode is that trial
reels are a kind of reel, a kind of post
on Instagram that will only reach
nonfollowers. It will not be shown to
your existing followers. So what does
this mean? This means that you could
post the maximum number of trial reels
per day, which by the way, we've
recently found out that it's about 20.
You could post 20 trial reels per day
and you will not overwhelm or frustrate
or annoy your existing followers, but
you will have 20 opportunities per day
to test out new content, to try out new
hooks, and if nothing else, to reach new
people. With my advanced trial reel
strategy, I've been reaching millions of
new people every single month. And these
are new people who are converting to
followers and customers as well. If you
aren't already using trial reels, you
need to be because this is a rare golden
opportunity. It's not very often that a
social media platform comes out with a
feature that is this beneficial for
people who want to grow. Usually, they
come out with features that make the
average person happy, but now that
Instagram came out with trial reels,
it's a clear indication that they're
trying to make us content creators and
small business owners happy and allow us
to reach more people. So, if you aren't
already posting trial reels, definitely
go back and check that previous episode.
I'll link it up down in the show notes
below. Instagram hack number four to
reach more targeted followers, grow your
engagement, and boost your account is to
take advantage of the name line on
Instagram. Now, there was recently some
Instagram news that as of July 10th,
2025, the entire Instagram profile and
all of your posts will be searchable.
What that means is if your ideal client
or customer or future follower is
searching on Google and they look up
terms that you cover or address in one
of your recent posts or that you talk
about in your bio, people can find you.
Your Instagram will come up. That means
that for almost no additional work, as
long as you're using strategic SEO
friendly keywords, you will reach more
people. you will grow your following and
you will be served up on a silver
platter for people who are already
looking for you as their solution. This
is such an awesome change and I'm so
happy that Instagram has made this
change. And so what you need to do to
take advantage of this change or to hack
this new SEO strategy is change your
name line on Instagram. Now, what the
heck even is the name line? The name
line is not the username. It's the bold
text that's right below your username.
And when you're setting up or editing
your profile on Instagram, it's labeled
as name. So, what do most people, maybe
even including you, likely have on this
line? Their first and last name. For
example, if I had my first and last name
on this line, my username would be Brock
11 Johnson. And then you'd see on this
line, Brock Johnson. But the problem
here is that my name in and of itself is
not searchable. Your name in and of
itself is not searchable. Unless you're
a household name, unless your brand or
product is that popular, that famous
that people are just searching for it on
its own. You need to make sure that you
have SEO friendly keywords or a title
for yourself or your brand or your
account on this name line. As you can
see on my name line, it says Instagram
growth coach because that's something
that's searchable. That's something that
more people are likely to be looking up
and thus more people are likely to be
discovering me organically because of
it. Now, back a few years ago, Instagram
actually made a really helpful change,
which was they extended this line from
being a maximum limit of 30 characters
to now up to, I believe, 56 characters,
which just gives us more space to
articulate what we do, who our niche is,
what our topic is, what those searchable
SEO friendly keywords are. Two pro tips
that I want to give you before we move
off of this nameline. Number one,
Instagram limits how frequently you can
change what is on your nameline. So,
make sure that you spellch checkck
whatever it is that you're going to be
putting on this line. Yours truly, back
a few years ago, changed the nameline to
say Instagram growth coach, but I
spelled Instagram wrong. I wrote Insta
GEMe instead of Instagram. And so, for
60 days, I was locked in as an Instagam
growth coach, which obviously wasn't
searchable. And that really hurt my
discoverability for that period. So,
number one, make sure that you spell
check before you press save. And number
two, make sure that you're using words
that people would actually be searching
for. Are people searching for a
marketing diva? Probably not. Are people
searching for your rock climbing bestie?
Probably not. Are people searching for
Minnesota fitness gal? Probably not. You
want to use terms and phrases that
people would actually be looking up. If
you're struggling to know if a term is
searchable or not, you could use Google
Trends to see what terms are more
popular. Let's say if you wanted to
compare fitness gal to fitness coach.
And if you want even more help with SEO
on Instagram, we have a complete guide
to search engine optimization on
Instagram, and that is linked up down in
the show notes below. Totally free guide
to help you out with SEO on Instagram.
Instagram hack number five is my
all-time favorite and it's one that I
will never shut up about and it is
called upycling your content. Upycling
your content basically means reposting
or recreating your own posts every 60 to
90 days. Once 2 to 3 months have gone
by, most people have forgotten about
your content. In reality, after 2 to 3
hours have gone by, most people have
already forgotten about your content. I
know we'd like to think that everyone
remembers every post we make, but most
people aren't even seeing every post you
make. And the few people who do see your
post, they're likely being distracted by
40 other things at the time. And so they
probably don't remember your post. The
very small 1% of people who do remember
your post, they probably remember it
because it was that good. And everyone
else would benefit from seeing it again.
and you would benefit from posting it
again, especially if the post when you
originally posted it did well. Maybe got
a lot of views or comments or shares or
whatever. If it did well in the past,
it's likely going to do well now. So,
post it a second time. That's all I mean
by repost. Instagram doesn't have a
repost button. Absolutely. Massive new
Instagram update was just announced by
their CEO and this is going to be one of
the biggest changes to the platform in
the last few years with the introduction
of an entirely new way to engage called
reposts. Similar to retweets on Twitter
or reposts on Tik Tok, you are now going
to be able to see someone else's public
feed post and repost it yourself. When
you repost a real on Instagram, it won't
show up as if you posted it. It's
basically a way to amplify someone
else's post or show someone's post to
your followers. So, if you're a small
business owner or a creator, getting
more reposts will directly lead to more
views. Also, there will be a new tab
added to your profile that will show
every post that you have reposted all in
one collection. I'm excited about this
feature. I think it's going to be a
great way to highlight small businesses
and creators. When I say repost, I mean
post your reel a second time. If you
already have your reel saved in your
camera roll or saved to some sort of
cloud storage, great. You already have
it ready to go. Just literally post it a
second time. If you don't, I recommend
using the website saveclipip.ap.
Again, that's savv clip p.ap.
Saveclipip.app. Yes, it is a website
even though it ends in app. I know
that's confusing, but if you go to that
website, you can paste in the link to
any post that you have made in the past
and then you can download it to your
device without the Instagram watermark
on it, thus making it easier for you to
repost a second time. Now, like I said,
part of upycling is not just reposting,
but it's also tweaking or recreating
your content. Maybe you want to use a
new audio. Maybe you want to redo your
voice over. Maybe you want to swap out
the hook for one that is more engaging
or more effective or more culturally
relevant to whatever is trending in pop
culture right now. The bottom line is if
you've been posting on Instagram for
more than 2 to 3 months, you've already
probably created a ton of content. And
there have probably already been some
outliers, some content that really
performed well. And so rather than
stressing yourself out by constantly
having to create more new new new
content, just repost the stuff that you
have posted in the past. In fact, the
majority of my posts that you see on my
Instagram are upcycled. Many of them are
directly reposted, maybe even directly
reposted numerous times, and a lot of my
posts are slight recreations or
variations of things I've posted in the
past. Only about 30% of the posts that
I'm posting are actually new strategies
or new content or new ideas that I've
never shared about before. And remember
earlier about how we talked about trial
reels and how you can post up to 20 a
day. If you've never heard about trial
reels before, and if you've never heard
about upycling before, me talking about
trial reels probably scared the out
of you because you were like, "Oh my
gosh, now I'm gonna have to post 20
reels a day as trial reels." Brock, how
is that a hack? That's a hack if you
upcycle. So, I am posting 20 trial reels
a day, but none of them are new. Sure,
occasionally I might throw in a new reel
as a trial reel because there's
something I want to test or a hook that
I want to experiment with, but the
majority of my trial reels, probably 95%
of them are just direct reposts or
slight variations of things that I have
previously posted. And with trial reels,
the upycling strategy makes even more
sense because again, trial reels are
being shown to new people, nonfollowers
who have never seen your account before.
And so if they've never followed you
before, well then the post that your
followers saw that did really well 2
months ago hasn't been seen by all these
new people. And so it's likely going to
do well. They definitely haven't seen
it. It's not going to annoy them. And it
might even go viral or help you bring in
a bunch of new followers. So stop trying
to reinvent the wheel with every single
post and just start upycling. And then
finally, last but not least, our final
hack for getting more views on Instagram
is getting more shares. Shares are the
best form of engagement on Instagram.
Five years ago, a save was the best form
of engagement on Instagram. A few years
before that, comments were the most
important. When Instagram first started,
it was all about likes. But today, it's
all about shares. Remember earlier when
I told you that Instagram believes that
DMs are their bread and butter? DMs are
their sweet spot. DMs are where they
excel, where they differentiate
themselves from platforms like Tik Tok
and YouTube and even Facebook. The
direct messages on Instagram are their
favorite child. And when you send a post
to a friend, also known as sharing a
post, that brings people together. And
that is often times facilitated through
the direct messages. I have friends, and
maybe you have friends, maybe you are
that friend, who literally send me 20 or
30 reels a day. I bet you during the
time that I've been recording this
podcast, my wife has sent me a few reels
on Instagram via direct message. And so
algorithmically speaking, Instagram has
optimized their platform to reward
content that gets the most shares. If
you get more shares, you will get more
views. According to Adam Moseri himself,
sends per reach or the number of shares
that you're getting divided by the
number of people who saw your post is
the ultimate metric for determining
virality and success of your post. Also,
if you take the whole algorithm out of
it, just think about what a share is.
It's one person sending a post to
another person or maybe another group of
people. And so you're at least going to
get one additional view, if not dozens
of additional views from everyone else
in that group. It's one human connecting
with another human over a post. And so
when you can create shareworthy content,
it is highly engaging. It is most likely
to go viral, help you get views, and
it's going to help you get followers
because when people are sending a post
from one person to another, it's not the
algorithm deciding who sees what. It's
not the algorithm deciding, oh, hey,
that was a really good post. Let's show
it to these people who might be
interested. It is one person sending it
to someone else who they know would be
interested. When my buddies send me
posts, they're the posts that I find the
funniest, that I relate to the most
because my friends know me. When my wife
sends me reels, those are the reels that
I laugh the hardest at, that I engage
the most with, that I spend the most
time watching because she knows me and
she knows the kinds of reels I'm going
to like to watch. And so I am the ideal
target viewer of any reel that is shared
with me. You are the ideal target viewer
of pretty much any reel that is shared
with you. And by that same extension, if
you create content that gets sends or
gets shares, it is going to be shared or
sent to your ideal target follower and
future customer. Now, getting more
shares on Instagram is not as simple as
just waving a magic wand and yay, you
suddenly get more shares. Getting more
shares is the result of creating
shareworthy content. Again, I've already
done an indepth episode that was like 30
or 40 minutes long going through the
five different kinds of shareworthy
content, what they are, how to create
them, examples of each, and going more
in-depth into creating shareworthy
content. But to summarize that episode,
it's that shareworthy content is rarely
educational content. Educational content
has value, and I don't want you to get
me wrong. There is plenty of value in
educational content. Content that shares
a tip or a lesson or a tutorial. That
content has a purpose, but that content
is rarely going to be the stuff that
gets a lot of shares. Instead, I want
you to focus on entertaining content. In
fact, recently I had a conversation with
Thomas Fenetto, who is the head of
Instagram for business, and he said, and
I quote, "Brands need to think of
themselves as entertainers first." End
quote. Now, I don't say that to scare
you, and I don't think that you need to
learn to juggle or dance or ride a
unicycle or become a fire spinner, but
you do need to consider the
entertainment value or how entertaining
your post is when you are creating
content if you want to have success
nowadays. The reality is even the most
valuable, educational, smart,
intelligent, useful posts will not get
views unless they are also entertaining.
I often times compare it to textbooks.
Think about the books that you are
recommending to friends. The books that
are flying off the shelves and becoming
New York Times bestsellers. Those books
are rarely textbooks filled with
education after education after lesson
after tip. And instead, they're stories.
They're entertaining. They're
captivating. You don't need to be the
next Oprah Winfrey, but you need to be
able to tell your story. And like I
said, there are five different kinds of
shareworthy posts. Those five kinds of
shareworthy posts are number one
motivational, number two community,
number three relatable, number four
controversial, and last but not least,
number five is timely content. If your
post can fall into one of those five
buckets, you will get more shares.
Recently, I've been really challenging
myself to uplevel this podcast. I've
been blown away with the number of
subscribers that we've gained over the
last few months and I've been really
trying to make it a priority to improve
the value both in the actual production
value like the quality of the video and
the editing and the value that I'm
providing to you in these episodes. And
so I would love to hear from you if
you're watching on YouTube. What do you
think about the set? What do you think
about our new dual camera setup? Did you
notice and or do you care that in this
episode I don't have a light behind my
head, but in the last few I have had a
light behind my head. What's your
feedback? Have you noticed? Do you care?
One of my goals is to hit 100,000
subscribers and get my first ever silver
play button by the end of 2025. I know
it's a big goal and it's kind of scary
to say it out loud, but I think that we
can get there. And I think we can get
there because people like you are so
flipping awesome continuing to subscribe
and listen week after week. And going
back to what I was just talking about
about shares, people like you sharing
the podcast is how this podcast is
growing. It's how I'm able to uplevel
and continue to create better episodes.
And so I want to ask you to share this
with a friend. If there's someone you
know who could benefit from today, if
you have a colleague, a friend, someone
in your space who you think would
benefit from today's episode, send them
the link. Maybe if you're so bold, you
even want to take a screenshot of
today's episode and post it on your
Instagram stories. Just don't forget to
tag me at Brock 11 Johnson so I can
appreciate you for doing so. But if
nothing else, thank you so much for
being here. Don't forget to subscribe so
that next week's episode automatically
shows up in your inbox. And as always,
happy networking.